Hello everyone and welcome to the section on logistic regression.
In this lecture we're going to describe the theory behind logistic regression as well as the theory
behind classification metrics in general not all labels are continuous.
Sometimes we need to do is predict categories.
And this is known as classification.
Logistic Regression is one of the basic ways to perform classification.
And don't be confused by the word regression even though it's just that your Russian has that word in
it.
It is a classification algorithm if you want some theory behind the mathematics of logistic regression.
Go ahead and read sections for 4.3 of an introduction.
Mystical learning by Garreth.
James if you want to fully understand some of the concepts behind the evaluation methods and metrics
behind classification I really recommend that reading assignment.
All right.
So we want to learn about discretion as a method for classification and some examples of classification
problems are things like separating spam emails versus ham or good emails trying to decide whether a
customer is going to default on their loan or even diagnosing a disease for instance if someone has
cancer or not.
And all of those above examples are examples of what's known as binary classification where the classification
is just between two classes.
And so far we've only seen regression problems.
We're trying to predict the continuous value although the name may be confusing at first.
Logistic Regression allows us to solve classification problems where we are trying to predict discrete
categories.
The convention for binary classification is to have two classes at 0 and 1.
And we're going to walk through the basic idea a logistic regression will also explain why it has a
term regression in it even though it's used for classification imagine we plotted out some categorical
data against one of its features.
So on the x axis we have some representative feature that goes from negative 10 all the way to 10 and
the y axis represents the probability of belonging to class 1.
So you can see here the blue points belong to class 0 which means they have zero probability of belonging
to class 1 and the orange points on top belong to class 1 to the have one.
There are 100 percent probability now we can't use a normal linear regression model on binary groups.
It won't lead to a good fit.
You can see here that we just don't fit so many of the points we need a function that will fit binary
categorical data and it would be great if we can find the function with this sort of behavior something
like this tries its best to match up to the different sides of the Y-axis.
Luckily for us there is such a function the sigmoid also known as the logistic function takes in any
value and that outputs it to be between 0 and 1.
And you can actually see the formula there on top of this graph.
And when you plot it out this is what it looks like.
And that's basically means that no matter what value of Z you put into this function the output will
always be between the numbers 0 and 1.
And this means we can take a linear regression solution and place it into the sigmoid function or the
logistic function.
So what does this actually look like.
Well basically we have our old linear model something that looks like y plus beta plus Beta 1 times
X. And we insert it into the sigmoid function that one over one plus eats in the minus and then that's
where our linear model goes which means no matter what we put into that linear model as an output once
it goes into the sigmoid function the value will always be between 0 and 1 and the result in a probability
from 0 to 1 belonging to the one class and then we can set a cutoff point at 0.5 to the anything below
it results in class 0 and anything above is Class 1.
We use the logistic function to output a value ranging from 0 to 1 and then based off this probability
we can assign a class after training logistic regression model and some training data you'll evaluate
your models performance on some test data and you can use a confusion matrix to evaluate classification
models.
So let's discuss that and a little more detail.
So this is what a confusion matrix looks like.
It's basically a cross diagram between the predicted condition or what you predicted the label to be
versus the true condition what the true label actually was.
So you can see this cross diagram we get various outputs.
And let's go through the four main ones here.
If our true condition was that the condition was positive for example we were testing for a disease
and we true condition is that the person really did have the disease and it predicted condition what
our model ended up outputting was that this person does have the disease as our prediction.
Now we have what is known as a true positive which means the person does have the disease or the conditional
is positive.
And our prediction was that the person was positive for this disease.
So that's a true positive value.
Now let's imagine that the true condition was actually false.
So this person doesn't actually have the disease.
However we predicted for it to be positive.
This means we have a false positive.
Also known as a type 1 error.
If we look on the other column the prediction negative we have the opposite set of values.
For example if a person truly has a disease but we predict that they do not have the disease we have
what's known as a false negative or a type 2 error.
Likewise if the predicted condition is negative and the person is truly negative so the condition is
negative then we have what's known as a true negative.
And we can expand this matrix with ratios and these ratios are essentially all the valuation metrics
we talk about when discussing classification.
So some of the more common ones are things like accuracy.
So you can see all the way in the left hand side at the bottom of that column we have accuracy and accuracy
is the sum of the number of true positives plus the number of true negatives divided by the total population
which basically means how many did you get right out of the total population.
Now in certain cases that's not enough information.
You also want to know things like the number of true positives divided by the number of conditional
positives so that can be something like sensitivity or recall otherwise known as a true positive rate.
Then there's other things like precision which is going to be the sum of the number of true positives
divided by the prediction positive.
So all of these metrics can be available to you.
The main idea is that there are all ratios based off of counts divided by some sort of total population
or some sort of total condition negative or total prediction positive prediction negative etc..
So you don't need to memorize any of these.
In fact this is just from the Wikipedia page.
You can always reference it.
All you have to be aware of is that the confusion matrix can lead to all these various metrics.
Again the main point to remember of the confusion matrix and the various calculated metrics is that
they are all fundamentally weights comparing the predicted values versus the true values.
The question of what constitutes a good metric will really depend on the specific situation.
In some cases accuracy is really important.
In other cases things like precision and recall are really important.
It really depends on the specific situation.
So asking the question hey is this a good recall value or is this a good accuracy value.
We're really the pen on the cost associated with each of those metrics.
So let's walk through an example of how we could use a confusion matrix to evaluate our model and we're
going to touch back again on the example of testing for a disease.
And so that's one of the most common examples whenever we're discussing confusion matrix.
So here we have our confusion matrix and we tested a total of 165 people or an equal to 65 and all the
way on the left hand side we can see the actual truth whether or not this person has disease yes or
no.
And on the columns we can see what we predicted.
No or Yes.
So for example the test for the presence of the zees know is equal to a negative test which is equal
to false or zero.
And yes is equal to a positive test or true as equal to 1.
So again the basic terminology can be things like true positives.
In this case that's equal to 100.
Yes some predictive Yes true negatives.
In this case equal to 50 actual and predicted no.
And then we have false positives and false negatives so false negatives is five where the actual is
yes.
But we predicted no.
So a false negative and then false positives is equal to 10 where the actual is no.
But we predicted.
Yes.
So the accuracy answer is the question.
Overall how often is it correct.
And we get that by summing the number of true positives versus the number true negatives over the total.
And in this case we get 91 percent accuracy.
The misclassification rate or error rate answers the question.
Overall how often is it wrong.
And you can do something like take the number of false positives plus the number of false negatives
over that total.
And that gives you a rate of around 9 percent.
So if you ever get confused on the discussion between type 1 errors or type 2 errors aka false positives
vs. false negatives This is a little handy funny picture for you to remember.
So telling a man You're pregnant.
Well that's definitely a false positive versus telling a woman who's obviously pregnant you're not pregnant
that's a false negative aka type 1 error versus type 2 errors.
If you're still confused on the confusion matrix no pun intended.
That's really no problem.
What I would suggest you do is check out the Wikipedia page for it.
That's where all the diagrams are from and it actually has a really good diagram of all the formulas
for all the metrics.
And essentially what we're going to do is just refer to those in case you ever want clarification on
them.
And throughout the course what we're usually going to do is just print out one of the metrics such as
accuracy or recall now binary classification which is what we've been discussing has some of its own
special classification metrics and these usually include visualizations of metrics from the confusion
matrix the receiver operator curve or our seeker was developed during World War II to help analyze radar
data.
So let's take a look at the Aros seeker of the Orosi curve.
It's just the plot of the sensitivity versus one minus the specificity otherwise known as the true positive
rate on that y axis plotted against the false positive rate.
And if you want a general outline of what the Orosi curve looks like and how it can be evaluated.
This diagonal line across the center in a red dashed line is essentially what a random guess is basically
a 50/50 chance of getting it right.
If you're above that line that means your model is performing better than a random guess.
If you're below that line that means your models are performing worse than a random guess.
And if you have absolute perfect classification then your model is eventually going to reach one over
there and that's what your curve will look like.
Basically right up against that y axis.
So a full discussion of the Orosi curve is beyond the scope of this course but if you're really interested
in it the reading assignment goes into much more detail.
For now you just need to know that the area under the curve is a metric for how well a model fit the
data with one being absolutely perfect fit.
All right.
Let's continue on exploring these concepts for a walk through of the documentation example and then
we'll also add some more stuff on evaluation to the example.
Thanks and I'll see at the next lecture.